Local Database Setup Guide (#6)
nitrictech/suga: docs/guides/local-db.mdx

---
title: "Local Database Setup"
description: "Set up PostgreSQL for Suga local development."
---

> Suga doesn’t auto-provision databases locally, giving you full choice and control. Here’s how to set up PostgreSQL for local use and any provider (Neon, Supabase, RDS) for production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suga doesn’t currently auto-provision databases locally. Here’s how to set up PostgreSQL for local use until auto-provisioning is added in a later release, as well as any provider (Neon, Supabase, RDS) for production.
```

<Note>

>   **Before you begin:** Make sure you have Suga CLI installed. See our [Installation Guide](/cli/installation) for platform-specific instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **Before you begin:** Make sure you have Suga CLI installed. See the [Installation Guide](/cli/installation) for platform-specific instructions.
```

</Note>

<AccordionGroup>

>   <Accordion title="Step 1: Initialize Project" icon="folder-plus">

Reviewer: This section should probably be removed and replaced with a link to a getting started guide. That way we won't need to maintain multiple copies of getting started instructions.

    **Start with a fresh Suga project**

    First, login to Suga if you haven't already:

    ```bash
    suga login
    ```

    Create a new project and select the Go template:

    ```bash
    suga new my-app
    ```

    When prompted, select the Go template (go-starter).

    Enter your project:

    ```bash
    cd my-app
    ```

    Generate the Suga SDK to enable access to cloud resources:

    ```bash
    suga generate --go --go-out ./suga --go-package-name suga
    go mod tidy
    ```
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="Step 2: Setup PostgresSQL with a Docker container" icon="docker">
    <Tip>
      Already have PostgreSQL running? Skip this step and use your existing database.

>     </Tip>

Reviewer: I'm confused by this section and tip, isn't this the intention of the guide?

Step 1 and Step 3 are both different guides (how to setup a project, adding a database to a project). I think they should both be moved/removed.

This page should assume I have a project and I'm trying to do what the title say "Local Database Setup".

Reviewer 2: Makes sense, I've refocussed it on just setting up the DB removing the unnecessary.
